
	asubio v1.0 (c) 2003 José Riguera López <jriguera@gmail.com>

Audio talk Linux service for local networks / 
Servicio Linux de audio talk para redes locales


=== English ===

The aim of this project was the creation of a VoIP application that would allow
several users to communicate with each other using PC computers. 

The program runs on Linux platforms, and through a RTP/RTCP bidirectional 
connection, making possible a conversation between two or more people like a 
phone. The application has an open and modular architecture, allowing you to 
expand its functionality with three types of plugins: I/O audio, audio effects 
and voice compression codecs. It is a multisession program, that allows carry 
on multiple conversations simultaneously active, with or without multicast 
networks. It is also prepared to support IPv6, the next generation of IP 
protocol.

It was developed with Glib-2.0 which ensures that the system is portable across
Unix platforms and even, with slight modifications, to MS Windows platforms. 
The GUI which was developed in GTK +2.0, is completely intuitive. It can show a 
photo of the remote user and has an XML addressbook to manage the contacts.


=== Spanish ===

El objetivo del presente proyecto fue la creación de una aplicación de VoIP que 
permitiese a varios usuarios comunicarse entre sí usando ordenadores PC. 

El programa se ejecuta en plataformas Linux y, mediante una conexión 
bidireccional RTP/RTCP, permite mantener una conversación entre dos o más 
personas como un de teléfono. La aplicación tiene una arquitectura abierta y 
modular, que permite extender sus funcionalidades con tres tipos de 
extensiones: E/S de audio, efectos sobre audio y codecs de compresión de voz. 
El programa es multisesión, es decir, puede mantener varias conversaciones 
activas simultáneamente, con o sin redes multicast. También está preparado para 
soportar IPv6, la próxima generación IP.

Ha sido desarrollado con Glib-2.0 lo que garantiza que el sistema es portable 
entre plataformas Unix e incluso -con pequeñas modificaciones- a plataformas MS 
Windows. La GUI se ha desarrollado en GTK+2.0, es totalmente intuitiva, permite 
mostrar una imagen del usuario con el que está dialogando y dispone de una 
agenda en XML en la que gestionar los contactos.



Keywords/Palabras clave:
VoIP, RTP/RTCP, Linux, OSS, C, Glib/GTK+, multiconferecing, IPv6, multicast, plugins

